Soapy sat on a seat in Madison Square, New York, and looked up at the sky. A dead leaf fell onto his arm. Winter was coming, and Soapy knew that he must make his plans. He moved unhappily on his seat.

He wanted three months in a nice, warm prison, with food and good friends. This was how he usually spent his winters. And now it was time, because, at night on his seat in the square, three newspapers did not keep out the cold.

So Soapy decided to go to prison, and at once began to try his first plan. It was usually easy. He ate dinner in an expensive restaurant. Then he told them he had no money and they called a policeman. Nice and easy, with no trouble.

So Soapy left his seat, and walked slowly along the street. Soon he came to a bright restaurant on Broadway. Ah! This was all right. He just had to get to a table in the restaurant and sit down. That was all, because, when he sat down, people could only see his coat and his shirt, which were not very old. Nobody could see his trousers. He thought about the meal – not too expensive, but good.

But when Soapy went into the restaurant, the waiter saw Soapy’s dirty old trousers and terrible shoes.

Strong hands turned him round and helped him out into the street again.

So now he had to think of something different. Soapy walked away from Broadway and soon he found himself on Sixth Avenue. He stopped in front of a shop window and looked at it. It was nice and bright, and everybody in the street could see him. Slowly and carefully he picked up a stone and threw it at the window. The glass broke with a loud noise. People ran round the corner and Soapy was happy, because the man in front was a policeman. Soapy did not move. He stood there with his hands in his pockets, and he smiled. ‘I’ll soon be in prison now,’ he thought.

The policeman came up to Soapy. ‘Who did that?’ he asked.

‘Perhaps I did,’ Soapy replied.

But the policeman knew that people who break windows do not stop to talk to policemen. They run away. And just then the policeman saw another man, who was running to catch a bus. So the policeman ran after him. Soapy watched for a minute. Then he walked away. No luck again! He began to feel cross.

But on the opposite side of the road he saw a little restaurant. ‘Ah, that’ll be all right,’ he thought, and he went in. This time nobody looked at his trousers and his shoes. He enjoyed his meal, and then he looked up at the waiter, smiled and said, ‘I haven’t got any money, you know. Now, call the police. And do it quickly. I’m tired!’

‘No police for you!’ the waiter answered. ‘Hey! Jo!’

Another waiter came, and together they threw Soapy out into the cold street. Soapy lay there, very angry. With difficulty, he stood up. His nice warm prison was still far away, and Soapy was very unhappy. He felt worse because a policeman, who was standing near, laughed and walked away.

Soapy moved on, but he walked for a long time before he tried again. This time it looked easy.

A nice young woman was standing in front of a shop window. Not very far away there was also a policeman. Soapy moved nearer to the young woman. He saw that the policeman was watching him. Then he said to the young woman, with a smile, ‘Why don’t you come with me, my dear? I can give you a good time.’

The young woman moved away a little and looked more carefully into the shop window. Soapy looked at the policeman. Yes, he was still watching. Then he spoke to the young woman again. In a minute she would call the policeman. Soapy could almost see the prison doors. Suddenly, the young woman took hold of his arm.

‘OK,’ she said happily. ‘If you buy me a drink. Let’s go before that policeman sees us.’

And poor Soapy walked away with the young woman, who still held on to his arm. He was very unhappy.

At the next corner he ran away from the woman. Suddenly he was afraid. ‘I’m never going to get to prison,’ he thought.

Slowly, he walked on and came to a street with a lot of theatres. There were a lot of people there, rich people in their best clothes. Soapy had to do something to get to prison. He did not want to spend another night on his seat in Madison Square. What could he do? Then he saw a policeman near him, so he began to sing and shout and make a lot of noise. This time they must send him to prison. But the policeman turned his back to Soapy and said to a man who was standing near, ‘He’s had too much to drink, but he’s not dangerous. We’ll leave him alone tonight.’

What was the matter with the police? Soapy was really unhappy now, but he stopped making a noise. How could he get to prison? The wind was cold, and he pulled his thin coat around him.

But, just then, inside a shop, he saw a man with an expensive umbrella. The man put his umbrella down near the door, and took out a cigarette. Soapy went into the shop, picked up the umbrella, and, slowly, he began to walk away. The man came quickly after him.

‘That’s my umbrella,’ he said.

‘Oh, is it?’ Soapy replied. ‘Then why don’t you call a policeman? I took it, and you say it’s your umbrella. Go on, then. Call a policeman! Look! There’s one on the corner.’

The umbrella man looked unhappy. ‘Well, you know, perhaps I’ve made a mistake. I took it from a restaurant this morning. If it’s yours, well, I’m very sorry . . .’

‘Of course it’s my umbrella,’ Soapy said.

The policeman looked at them — and the umbrella man walked away. The policeman went to help a beautiful young girl to cross the road.

Soapy was really angry now. He threw the umbrella away and said many bad things about policemen. Just because he wanted to go to prison, they did not want to send him there. He could do nothing wrong!

He began to walk back to Madison Square and home — his seat.

But on a quiet corner, Soapy suddenly stopped. Here, in the middle of the city, was a beautiful old church. Through one purple window he could see a soft light, and sweet music was coming from inside the church. The moon was high in the sky and everything was quiet. For a few seconds it was like a country church and Soapy remembered other, happier days. He thought of the days when he had a mother, and friends, and beautiful things in his life.

Then he thought about his life now — the empty days, the dead plans. And then a wonderful thing happened. Soapy decided to change his life and be a new man. ‘Tomorrow,’ he said to himself, ‘I’ll go into town and find work. My life will be good again. I’ll be somebody important. Everything will be different. I’ll . . .’

Soapy felt a hand on his arm. He jumped and looked round quickly — into the face of a policeman!

‘What are you doing here?’ asked the policeman.

‘Nothing,’ Soapy answered.

‘Then come with me,’ the policeman said.

‘Three months in prison,’ they told Soapy the next.

A Piece of Soap
Norman Gortsby was sitting on a bench hidden behind the bushes in Hyde Park. It was a warm May evening. The sun had already set and it was rather dark, but he could still make out the faces of the people who were walking past him and hear the sound of their voices. He was a philosopher, and liked sitting in the Park watching people whom he didn’t know. While he was wondering who they were and where they were going, a young man came up to the bench, gave a quick look at him and threw himself down by his side. The newcomer was well-dressed and looked like a gentleman. His face was sad and he sighed deeply.
«You don’t seem to be in a very good mood,» said Norman. The young man was silent. He only looked at Norman again and there was an expression in his eyes that Norman didn’t like.
«I really don’t know how it all happened.» he began at last, «but I’ve done the silliest thing that I’ve ever done in my life.» He spoke in a low voice, almost in a whisper.
«Yes» said Norman coldly.
«I came to London this afternoon,» the young man went on. «I had a meal at the hotel, sent a letter to my people, giving them the address and then went out to buy a piece of soap. They are supposed to give you soap at the hotel but it’s always so bad that I decided to buy some for myself. I bought it, had a drink at a bar, and looked at the shops. When I wanted to go back to the hotel, I suddenly realized that I didn’t remember its name or even what street it was in. Of course I can write to my people for the address, but they won’t get my letter till tomorrow. The only shilling I had on me when I came out was spent on the soap and the drink and here I am with two pence in my pocket and nowhere to go for the night.»
There was a pause after he told the story.
«I’m afraid you don’t believe me,» he added.
«Why not?» said Norman. «I did the same thing once in a foreign capital. So I can understand you very well.»
«I’m glad you do,» the young man said with a pleasant smile. «And now I must go. I hope by the time it gets quite dark I’ll have found a man who’ll believe me like you did, and will agree to lend me some money.»
«Of course,» said Norman slowly. «The weak point of your story is that you can’t produce the soap.»
The young man put his hand into his pocket and suddenly got up.
«I’ve lost it,» he said angrily.
«It’s too much to lose a hotel and a piece of soap on the same day,» said Norman.
But the young man did not hear him. He was running away.
«It was a good idea to ask him about the soap, and so simple,» Norman thought as he rose to go. But at that moment he noticed a small packet lying by the side of the bench. It could be nothing but a piece of soap, and it had evidently fallen out of the young man’s coat pocket when he threw himself down on the bench. Turning red, Norman picked it up.
«I just can’t allow him to go away like this,» he thought, and started running after the young man.
«Stop!» cried Norman when he saw him at the Park gate. The young man obeyed.
«Here’s your piece of soap,» Norman said. «I found it under the bench. Don’t lose it again, it’s been a good friend to you. And here’s a pound, if it can help you».
«Thanks,» said the young man, and quickly put the money into his pocket.
«Here’s my card with my address,» continued Norman. «You can return the money any day this week.»
The young man thanked him again and quickly went away.
«It’s a good lesson to me,» Norman thought, and went back to the Park. When he was passing the bench where the little drama had taken place, he saw an old gentleman looking for something.
«Have you lost anything, sir?» Norman asked.
«Yes, sir, a piece of soap».
 have always believed that a man must be honest. «Never ask for money you have not earned», I always said.

Now I shall tell you a story which will show you how honest I have always been all my life.

A few days ago at my friend’s house I met General Miles. General Miles was a nice man and we became great friends very quickly.

«Did you live in Washington in 1867?» the general asked me.

«Yes, I did,» I answered.

«How could it happen that we did not meet then?» said General Miles.

«General», said I. «We could not meet then. You forget that you were already a great general then, and I was a poor young writer whom nobody knew and whose books nobody read. You do not remember me, I thought, but we met once in Washington at that time.»

I remember it very well. I was poor then and very often I did not have money even for my bread. I had a friend. He was a poor writer too. We lived together. We did everything together: worked, read books, went for walks together. And when we were hungry, we were both hungry. Once we were in need of three dollars. I don’t remember why we needed these three dollars so much, but I remember well that we had to have the money by the evening.

«We must get these three dollars,» said my friend. «I shall try to get the money, but you must also try.»

I went out of the house, but I did not know where to go and how to get the three dollars. For an hour I was walking along the streets of Washington and was very tired. At last I came to a big hotel. «I shall go in and have a rest,» I thought.

I went into the hall of the hotel and sat down on a sofa. I was sitting there when a beautiful small dog ran into the hall. It was looking for somebody. The dog was nice and I had nothing to do, so I called it and began to play with it.

I was playing with the dog, when a man came into the hall. He wore a beautiful uniform and I knew at once that he was General Miles. I knew him by his pictures in the newspapers. «What a beautiful dog!» said he. «Is it your dog?»

I did not have time to answer him when he said, «Do you want to sell it?»

«Three dollars», I answered at once.

«Three dollars?» he asked. «But that is very little. I can give you fifty dollars for it.»

«No, no. I only want three dollars.»

«Well, it is your dog. If you want three dollars for it, I shall be glad to buy your dog.»

General Miles paid me three dollars, took the dog and went up to his room.

Ten minutes later an old man came into the hall. He looked round the hall. I could see that he was looking for something.

«Are you looking for a dog, sir?» I asked.

«Oh, yes! Have you seen it?» said the man.

«Your dog was here a few minutes ago and I saw how it went away with a man,» I said. «If you want, I shall try to find it for you.»

The man was very happy and asked me to help him.

«I shall be glad to help you, but it will take some of my time and…»

«I am ready to pay you for your time,» cried the man. «How much do you want for it?»

«Three dollars,» answered I.

«Three dollars?» said the man. «But it is a very good dog. I shall pay you ten dollars if you find it for me.»

«No sir, I want three dollars and not a dollar more,» said I.

Then I went up to General Miles’s room. The General was playing with his new dog.» I came here to take the dog back», said I.

«But it is not your dog now — I have bought it. I have paid you three dollars for it,» said the General.

«I shall give you back your three dollars, but I must take the dog back», answered I. «But you have sold it to me, it is my dog now.»

«I could not sell it to you, sir, because it was not my dog.»

«Still you have sold it to me for three dollars.» «How could I sell it to you when it was not my dog? You asked me how much I wanted for the dog, and I said that I wanted three dollars. But I never told you that it was my dog.»

General Miles was very angry now.

«Give me back my three dollars and take the dog,» he shouted. When I brought the dog back to its master, he was very happy and paid me three dollars with joy. I was happy too because I had the money, and I felt I earned it.

Now you can see why I say that honesty is the best policy and that a man must never take anything that he has not earned.
Mr Brown lived near the centre of town, but his small house had a garden. Mr Brown liked his garden very much. It had a lot of flowers and they were pretty in summer — red, blue and yellow. Mr Brown liked sitting there in the evenings and at weekends.

But he had to work, too. Mr Brown worked in an office. It wasn’t near his house, so he often went to work on the bus. He came home on the bus, too.

Mr Brown was a lonely man. He didn’t have many friends, and he didn’t talk to many people. And so he was sad and often bored.

One very hot day, Mr Brown walked home. He didn’t want to go on the bus that day. He wanted a walk in the warm sun. In one street there was a small shop. Mr Brown looked in the window.

There were very old things in the window, and Mr Brown liked old things. He went into the shop.

‘Good afternoon,’ said the man in the shop.

‘Good afternoon,’ said Mr Brown. ‘Can I look round the shop?’

‘Please do.’

Mr Brown looked at the things in the shop. He saw an old doll with a sad face. It wasn’t a pretty face, but Mr Brown liked it. The doll was a little old man with white hair and black clothes.

Mr Brown thought, ‘Perhaps the doll is lonely, too.’

He asked, ‘How much do you want for this old doll?’

The man thought. ‘Oh, that. Three pounds,’ he said.

Mr Brown wanted the doll. Why? He didn’t know. But he wanted it. Three pounds was a lot of money for an old doll, but Mr Brown paid it. He went out with the doll in his hand.

He looked at its face. ‘Is it smiling?’ he wondered. ‘No,’ he thought. ‘It’s only a doll.’ He said to it, ‘I’m going to take you home,’

The doll didn’t answer – it was only a doll. So why did Mr Brown speak to it? Because he was lonely. He put it in his case with his papers from the office.

Mr Brown was tired now, so he got on the bus. The man came for Mr Brown’s money and Mr Brown bought a ticket.

Suddenly, somebody on the bus spoke. ‘Go away!’ said the person. ‘You stupid man. Go away!’

Everybody on the bus looked at Mr Brown. ‘Did he say that?’ they wondered.

The ticket man was angry with Mr Brown. ‘Why did he say that?’ he wondered. He gave Mr Brown a ticket and went away. He didn’t like Mr Brown.

When Mr Brown got home, he was very tired. ‘Who spoke on the bus?’ he wondered. He didn’t know. He took the doll out of his case and looked at it.

It was only a doll. It wasn’t very pretty. It was quite ugly but it had a smile on its face. ‘That’s strange,’ thought Mr Brown. He put the doll on the table and had his dinner.

Mr Brown wasn’t very hungry, so he only ate some bread and butter. Then he went to bed and slept. He forgot the doll. It was on the table.

Morning came, and the sun shone into the room. Mr Brown opened his eyes. There was something on his bed. ‘What is it?’ he wondered.

He looked, and he saw the doll. ‘But I left it on the table. It can’t walk — it’s only a doll,’ Mr Brown didn’t understand it. It was very strange.

Mr Brown went to the front door. ‘Are there any letters for me?’ he wondered.

Yes, there were three with his name and address. But what was this? The letters were open! Who opened them? Mr Brown didn’t know.

Mr Brown ate his breakfast. Then he went to the bus stop and waited. His bus came and stopped for him. Mr Brown got on with his case and sat down.

There were a lot of people on the bus, and one old woman couldn’t sit down. Her face was tired, and Mr Brown was a kind man. He stood up for her, and she sat down.

Then suddenly, somebody spoke. ‘You stupid old thing!’

The woman turned and looked at Mr Brown. She was very angry. Mr Brown’s face went red. Then he remembered the doll.

He got off the bus. He couldn’t understand it. ‘That doll’s at home,’ he thought. ‘Or is it?’

Mr Brown opened his case and looked inside. The doll was there, with a big smile on its ugly face!

He put the doll down on the street and left it there. Then he went to work. ‘That’s the end of that doll,’ he thought. ‘Good!’

Mr Brown worked well all day. After work, he walked to the bus stop. But what was that? The doll was at the bus stop! Mr Brown saw the white hair and the black clothes, and he saw the smile, too. ‘What’s happening?’ he wondered. ‘It’s waiting for me! It isn’t only a doll. But what is it?’

He turned and ran away from the bus stop. Then he walked home. He had to walk three kilometres to his house. He was very tired.

Mr Brown sat down in a chair and went to sleep. He slept for an hour.

Suddenly, there was a big noise in another room – CRASH! SMASH! Mr Brown opened his eyes. ‘What’s wrong?’ he wondered. He went into the other room.

The doll was there again. It sat on the table and looked at him. Mr Brown’s cups and plates were all on the floor.

‘It isn’t only a doll,’ Mr Brown thought. ‘And it isn’t a friend. This is difficult. What can I do?’

He took the doll into the garden and buried it in the ground.

‘That really is the end of you,’ said Mr Brown. ‘You’re under the ground now. You won’t get out of there.’

Next day, Mr Brown went to work on the bus. He didn’t have the doll now and nobody spoke. He worked hard, and he was happy.

Mr Brown came home again that night. He watched television. ‘This is good,’ he thought.

At eleven o’clock he went to bed. The house was dark and quiet.

But an hour later, there was a sudden noise in the night. Mr Brown sat up in bed. He was cold and afraid. ‘What was that noise?’ he wondered.

The noise was at the back door. Mr Brown was afraid, but he opened the door. It was the doll again!

It was dirty from the ground, but it looked at Mr Brown and smiled. It was a cold smile, and Mr Brown was very afraid.

He looked at the doll and said, ‘Go away! Please! Go away!’

The doll didn’t speak – it only smiled again. Mr Brown was very angry now. He took the doll into the garden again. He found some wood, and he made a big fire. He lit the fire. Then he put the doll on the top.

‘Now die!’ said Mr Brown. ‘It’s different this time. This will be the end of you.’ And Mr Brown smiled. The fire was hot and red.

The fire got bigger – and bigger. Suddenly there was a loud cry, and people ran out of their houses. ‘What’s wrong?’ they shouted.

‘There’s a big fire in Mr Brown’s garden,’ somebody said. ‘Look!’

And there was a big fire.

The people looked round the house and garden. They couldn’t find Mr Brown. But on the ground near the fire, there was a doll with white hair and black clothes. It wasn’t a pretty doll. And there was a smile on its face.
Tom Smith was a nice young man. He wanted a job, but he couldn’t find one. Many people wanted to work, and there weren’t many jobs. Tom felt sad because he never had money for clothes or the cinema.

When he was younger, Tom wanted to be a footballer. He was good at football, and at tennis, too. He was good at every sport. But there were other, better players.

Now Tom had a new idea. He thought, ‘Perhaps I can find a job in a sports shop. I’ll be happy then and I’ll have money.’ But it was only an idea. It never happened.

He tried hard to find a job. He looked in the newspapers every day and he wrote letters for jobs — a lot of letters. But he never found a job.

One day he saw something in the newspaper about a fair in the park near his house.

‘That will be interesting,’ he thought. ‘It’s next Saturday. I think I’ll go. Yes, I’ll go. I’m not doing anything this weekend, and it won’t cost much.’

On Saturday Tom walked to the park and bought a ticket for the fair. It was a warm summer day. The sky was blue, and the park was very pretty. There were a lot of flowers — blue, yellow and red. Tom felt happy when he saw them.

The fair was good, too. There were a lot of people there, and many different games. Tom played some games. He won a box of fruit and a book about sport. Then he bought an ice-cream because he was hot and thirsty,

‘I’m having a good day!’ he thought. He sat down and ate his ice-cream. ‘Now, what shall I do next?’

Suddenly he saw, in large letters:





Tom Smith thought very hard. ‘Shall I go in?’ he thought.’Why not? I’m not afraid of the future. Perhaps it will be interesting. Yes, I’ll go in and have a conversation with Madame Zelda.’

So he went in. It was very dark inside. An old woman with grey hair and a kind face smiled at Tom.

‘Hello, young man!’ she said. ‘Sit down and I will tell you about your future.’

Tom sat down. The old woman looked at some cards on the table.

‘Take three cards,’ she said.

Tom took the cards and gave them to her. The woman looked at the cards for a long time. Then she spoke. She didn’t smile now.

‘Listen!’ she said. ‘I have to tell you something VERY important.

Do not go anywhere next Friday. Make a journey next Friday, and you will never arrive! Something will happen on the way. Don’t forget now. I can tell you nothing more. Be careful, young man.’

Tom left. The sun was very hot on his face. He had no more money, and he wanted to go home. ‘I’m not afraid,’ he thought. ‘I don’t go on journeys. I won’t go anywhere next Friday. Every day is the same to me. I haven’t got a job, so I don’t go anywhere.’

But on Thursday Tom had a letter. It was an answer to one of his letters! There was a job in a town thirty kilometres away. It was in a sports shop. The boss wanted to meet Tom the next day.

Tom felt very happy. ‘I’ll have to take a train there,’ he thought. ‘I can’t walk thirty kilometres.’

Suddenly he remembered the old woman at the fair, and he felt afraid. ‘Do not go anywhere next Friday,’ she told him.

‘But what can I do?’ Tom thought sadly.’I can’t lose this job. It’s too important to me. I’ll have to take the train tomorrow. And what can an old woman know about the future? Nothing!’

But he wasn’t very happy about it. And he didn’t sleep well that night.

The next day was Friday, and Tom went to the station. He bought a ticket at the ticket office. The train arrived, and he climbed on it.

An old man sat down next to Tom. His face was intelligent under his white hair. He had a bad leg, and Tom felt sorry for him.

The train left the station and went through the country. A waiter came round with some food and the old man bought a sandwich. Then he smiled at Tom and said,’Are you thirsty? I’ve got some tea with me. Would you like some?’

He took out a cup and gave Tom some tea, ‘He’s a kind man!’ Tom thought. ‘I really like him.’

He smiled at the old man and said, ‘Thank you. I’m Tom Smith. Are you going a long way?’

But the old man couldn’t answer. Suddenly there was a very loud noise and the train stopped. What was wrong? The people on the train were afraid. They all looked out of the windows, but they couldn’t see anything.

‘Don’t be afraid,’ Tom told his new friend. ‘I’ll go and see. Perhaps it’s an accident. Stay here and you’ll be OK.’

The old man smiled. ‘Thank you, my young friend,’ he said. ‘I will stay here. My old legs are very weak.’

Tom found the guard. ‘What’s wrong?’ he asked him. ‘Why did we stop?’

The guard looked at Tom unhappily. ‘There’s a large tree in front of the train,’ he said. ‘We’ll have to move it, but we can’t do it quickly. So this is the end of the journey for you. You’ll have to get off the train and walk.’

‘Walk where?’ Tom asked.

The guard looked at a map.’There’s a village near here. You can go there and perhaps find a restaurant or a cafe. I have to stay here with the train. I’m very sorry about your journey. But you’ll get your money back.’

Tom thought, ‘The money isn’t important. I really wanted that job!’ And he felt very sad.

Tom didn’t say anything about the job to the old man. He helped his friend off the train and carried his case to the village.

‘Thank you very much,’ the old man said to Tom. ‘I know that my case is heavy. There’s a computer in it, and there are a lot of papers.’

Tom smiled. ‘It’s all right,’ he said. But inside he was very sad. ‘I was stupid,’ he thought. ‘I didn’t listen to the old woman, but she was right. I won’t get that job now.’

The old man saw Tom’s sad face and asked him, ‘What’s wrong, my young friend?’

So Tom told him the story about the job in the sports shop.

Then a strange thing happened. The old man smiled, and then he laughed! Why did he laugh? Tom didn’t know and he felt a little angry. The old man was his friend, but this was a bad day for Tom. It wasn’t funny!

Tom couldn’t speak or smile. The old man saw this and he stopped laughing. Then he said, ‘Listen to me, Tom, and don’t be sad. I’m a rich man. I’ve got a lot of shops in different towns, and they’re all sports shops. I want an intelligent young man to work in my new shop. It’s also my biggest shop! Will you work for me? I think I know you now. You were very kind to me on the train. You’re the right person for the job. What’s your answer?’

‘This is wonderful,’ Tom said with a happy smile. ‘This is the best day of my life, not the worst!’
One evening a man called James was on the road from Oxford to London. There weren’t many cars on the road because it was late. Suddenly in the lights of his car he saw a woman by the road – she was quite young and very pretty. ‘It’s dangerous to walk along the road when it’s dark and late,’ he thought. He stopped, opened the window and asked the young woman, ‘Where are you going? It’s dangerous to stand here at night… perhaps I can take you to London with me.’ The young woman didn’t answer but she opened the door of the car and got in.

James asked her e a lot of questions: ‘What’s your name? Where do you live? Why are you on the road at night? Is your family in London? Where are your friends? Have you got any money? Are you hungry?’ The young woman sat next to James but she said nothing. Not one word. She only looked at the road.

Soon James stopped asking questions and they drove along without talking. Coming into London there were more cars and James had to drive more slowly. Suddenly the young woman started to open the door so James stopped the car quickly. They were in front of a house on a long street. The woman opened the door and got out of the car, then she slowly walked up to the front door of the house. James watched her and thought angrily, ‘She didn’t say «Thank you».’

Three days later he opened the back door of his car and found a coat. ‘This isn’t my coat,’ he thought. Then he remembered the young woman. Perhaps it was her coat. He had to drive to London again that evening so he thought, ‘l’ll take her coat back. ..I remember the street and the house.’ He drove there, parked in front of the house and walked up to the door. An older woman answered.

‘Does a young woman live here?’ he asked’. l think this is her coat – she left it in my car three days ago.’

The woman looked at the coat and began to cry. ‘That was my daughter’s coat.. .’

‘Here, please give it back to her then,’ James said.

‘l can’t,’ the woman said. ‘She’s dead.’

‘Dead!’ said James.

‘Yes, she died five years ago.’

Five years ago?’ James asked quietly.

‘Yes, on the road between Oxford and London. .. in an accident,’ the woman said.
‘Of course,’ the man in the brown hat said, ‘there are good policemen and there are bad policemen, you know.’

‘You’re right,’ the young man said. ‘Yes. That’s very true. Isn’t it, Julie?’ He looked at the young woman next to him.

Julie didn’t answer and looked bored. She closed her eyes.

‘Julie’s my wife,’ the young man told the man in the brown hat. ‘She doesn’t like trains. She always feels ill on trains.’

‘Oh yes?’ the man in the brown hat said. ‘Now my wife — she doesn’t like buses. She nearly had an accident on a bus once. It was last year … No, no, it wasn’t. It was two years ago. I remember now. It was in Manchester.’ He told a long, boring story about his wife and a bus in Manchester.

It was a hot day and the train was slow. There were seven people in the carriage. There was the man in the brown hat; the young man and his wife, Julie; a mother and two children; and a tall dark man in an expensive suit.

The young man’s name was Bill. He had short brown hair and a happy smile. His wife, Julie, had long red hair and very green eyes — the colour of sea water. They were very beautiful eyes.

The man in the brown hat talked and talked. He had a big red face and a loud voice. He talked to Bill because Bill liked to talk too. The man in the brown hat laughed a lot, and when he laughed, Bill laughed too. Bill liked talking and laughing with people. The two children were hot and bored. They didn’t want to sit down. They wanted to be noisy and run up and down the train.

‘Now sit down and be quiet,’ their mother said. She was a small woman with a tired face and a tired voice.

’1 don’t want to sit down,’ the little boy said. ‘I’m thirsty.’

‘Here. Have an orange,’ his mother said. She took an orange out of her bag and gave it to him.

‘I want an orange too,’ the little girl said loudly.

‘All right. Here you are,’ said her mother. ‘Eat it nicely, now.’

The children ate their oranges and were quiet for a minute.

Then the little boy said, ‘I want a drink. I’m thirsty.’

The tall dark man took out his newspaper and began to read. Julie opened her eyes and looked at the back page of his newspaper. She read about the weather in Budapest and about the football in Liverpool. She wasn’t interested in Budapest and she didn’t like football, but she didn’t want to listen to Bill and the man in the brown hat. ‘Talk, talk, talk,’ she thought. ‘Bill never stops talking.’

Then suddenly she saw the tall man’s eyes over the top of his newspaper. She could not see his mouth, but there was a smile in his eyes. Quickly, she looked down at the newspaper and read about the weather in Budapest again.

The train stopped at Dawlish station and people got on and got off. There was a lot of noise.

‘Is this our station?’ the little girl asked. She went to the window and looked out.

‘No, it isn’t. Now sit down,’ her mother said.

‘We’re going to Penzance,’ the little girl told Bill. ‘For our holidays.’

‘Yes,’ her mother said. ‘My sister’s got a little hotel by the sea. We’re staying there. It’s cheap, you see.’

‘Yes,’ the man in the brown hat said. ‘It’s a nice town. I know a man there. He’s got a restaurant in King Street. A lot of holiday people go there. He makes a lot of money in the summer.’ He laughed loudly. ‘Yes,’ he said again. ‘You can have a nice holiday in Penzance.’

‘We’re going to St Austell,’ Bill said. ‘Me and Julie. It’s our first holiday. Julie wanted to go to Spain, but I like St Austell. I always go there for my holidays. It’s nice in August. You can have a good time there too.’

Julie looked out of the window. ‘Where is Budapest?’ she thought. ‘I want to go there. I want to go to Vienna, to Paris, to Rome, to Athens.’ Her green eyes were bored and angry. Through the window she watched the little villages and hills of England.

The man in the brown hat looked at Julie. ‘You’re right,’ he said to Bill. ‘You can have a good time on holiday in England. We always go to Brighton, me and the wife. But the weather! We went one year, and it rained every day. Morning, afternoon, and night. It’s true. It never stopped raining.’ He laughed loudly. ‘We nearly went home after the first week.’

Bill laughed too.’What did you do all day, then?’ he asked.

Julie read about the weather in Budapest for the third time. Then she looked at the tall man’s hands. They were long, brown hands, very clean. ‘Nice hands,’ she thought. He wore a very expensive Japanese watch. ‘Japan,’ she thought. ‘I’d like to go to Japan.’ She looked up and saw the man’s eyes again over the top of his newspaper. This time she did not look away. Green eyes looked into dark brown eyes for a long, slow minute.

After Newton Abbot station the guard came into the carriage to look at their tickets. ‘Now then,’ he said, ‘where are we all going?’

‘This train’s late,’ the man in the brown hat said. ‘Twenty minutes late, by my watch.’

‘Ten minutes,’ the guard said. ‘That’s all.’ He smiled at Julie.

The tall dark man put his newspaper down, found his ticket, and gave it to the guard. The guard looked at it.

‘You’re all right, sir,’ he said. ‘The boat doesn’t leave Plymouth before six o’clock. You’ve got lots of time.’

The tall man smiled, put his ticket back in his pocket and opened his newspaper again.

Julie didn’t look at him. ‘A boat,’ she thought. ‘He’s taking a boat from Plymouth. Where’s he going?’ She looked at him again with her long green eyes.

He read his newspaper and didn’t look at her. But his eyes smiled. The train stopped at Totnes station and more people got on and off.

‘Everybody’s going on holiday,’ Bill said. He laughed. ‘It’s going to be wonderful. No work for two weeks. It’s a nice, quiet town, St Austell. We can stay in bed in the mornings, and sit and talk in the afternoons, and have a drink or two in the evenings. Eh, Julie?’ He looked at his wife. ‘Are you all right, Julie?’

‘Yes, Bill,’ she said quietly. ‘I’m OK.’ She looked out of the window again. The train went more quickly now, and it began to rain. Bill and the man in the brown hat talked and talked. Bill told a long story about two men and a dog, and the man in the brown hat laughed very loudly.

‘That’s a good story,’ he said. ‘I like that. You tell it very well. Do you know the story about . . .’ And he told Bill a story about a Frenchman and a bicycle.

‘Why do people laugh at these stories?’ Julie thought. ‘They’re so boring!’

But Bill liked it. Then he told a story about an old woman and a cat, and the man in the brown hat laughed again. ‘That’s good, too. I don’t know. How do you remember them all?’

‘Because’, Julie thought, ‘he tells them every day.’

‘I don’t understand,’ the little girl said suddenly. She looked at Bill. ‘Why did the cat die?’

‘Shhh. Be quiet,’ her mother said. ‘Come and eat your sandwiches now.’

‘That’s all right,’ Bill said. ‘I like children.’

The man in the brown hat looked at the children’s sandwiches. ‘Mmm, I’m hungry, too,’ he said. ‘You can get sandwiches in the restaurant on this train.’ He looked at Bill. ‘Let’s go down to the restaurant, eh? I need a drink too.’

Bill laughed. ‘You’re right. It’s thirsty work, telling stories.’

The two men stood up and left the carriage.

The little girl ate her sandwich and looked at Julie. ‘But why did the cat die?’ she asked.

‘I don’t know,’ Julie said. ‘Perhaps it wanted to die.’

The little girl came and sat next to Julie. ‘I like your hair,’ she said. ‘It’s beautiful.’ Julie looked down at her and smiled.

For some minutes it was quiet in the carriage. Then the tall dark man opened his bag and took out a book. He put it on the seat next to him, and looked at Julie with a smile. Julie looked back at him, and then down at the book. Famous towns of Italy, she read. Venice, Florence, Rome, Naples. She looked away again, out of the window at the rain. ‘Two weeks in St Austell,’ she thought. ‘With Bill. In the rain.’

After half an hour the two men came back to the carriage. ‘There are a lot of people on this train,’ Bill said. ‘Do you want a sandwich, Julie?’

‘No,’ she said. ‘I’m not hungry. You eat them.’

The train was nearly at Plymouth. Doors opened and people began to move. ‘A lot of people get on here,’ the man in the brown hat said.

The tall dark man stood up and put his book and his newspaper in his bag. Then he picked up his bag and left the carriage. The train stopped at the station. A lot of people got on the train, and two women and an old man came into the carriage. They had a lot of bags with them. Bill and the man in the brown hat stood up and helped them. One of the women had a big bag of apples. The bag broke and the apples went all over the carriage.

‘Oh damn!’ she said.

Everybody laughed, and helped her to find the apples. The train moved away from Plymouth station. After a minute or two everybody sat down and the woman gave some apples to the children.

‘Where’s Julie?’ Bill said suddenly. ‘She’s not here.’ ‘Perhaps she went to the restaurant,’ the man in the brown hat said.

‘But she wasn’t hungry,’ Bill said. ‘She told me.’ The little girl looked at Bill. ‘She got off the train at

Plymouth,’ she said. ‘With the tall dark man. 1 saw them.’ ‘Of course she didn’t!’ Bill said. ‘She’s on this train. She didn’t get off.’

‘Yes, she did,’ the children’s mother said suddenly. ‘I saw her too. The tall man waited for her on the platform.’ ‘He waited for her?’ Bill’s mouth was open. ‘But… But he read his newspaper all the time. He didn’t talk to Julie. And she never talked to him. They didn’t say a word.’ ‘People don’t always need words, young man,’ the children’s mother said.

‘But she’s my wife!’ Bill’s face was red and angry. ‘She can’t do that!’ he said loudly. He stood up. ‘I’m going to stop the train.’ Everybody looked at him and the two children laughed.

‘No,’ the man in the brown hat said, ‘no, you don’t want to do that. Sit down and eat your sandwiches, my friend.’

‘But I don’t understand. Why did she go? What am I going to do?’ Bill’s face was very unhappy. After a second or two he sat down again. ‘What am I going to do?’ he said again.

‘Nothing,’ the man in the brown hat said. He ate his sandwich slowly.
 Mr Harris liked trains. He was afraid of aeroplanes, and didn’t like buses.
 But trains — they were big and noisy and exciting. When he was a boy of ten, he liked trains. Now he was a man of fifty, and he still liked trains. So he was a happy man on the night of the 14th of September.

 He was on the night train from Helsinki to Oulu in Finland, and he had ten hours in front of him. ‘I’ve got a book and my newspaper,’ he thought. ‘And there’s a good restaurant on the train. And then I’ve got two weeks’ holiday with my Finnish friends in Oulu.’

 There weren’t many people on the train, and nobody came into Mr Harris’s carriage. He was happy about that. Most people on the train slept through the night, but Mr Harris liked to look out of the window, and to read and think. After dinner in the restaurant Mr Harris came back to his carriage, and sat in his seat next to the window.

 For an hour or two he watched the trees and lakes of Finland out of the window.
 Then it began to get dark, so he opened his book and began to read. At midnight the train stopped at the small station of Otava. Mr Harris looked out of the window, but he saw nobody. The train moved away from the station, into the black night again. Then the door of Mr Harris’s carriage opened, and two people came in. A young man and a young woman.

 The young woman was angry. She closed the door and shouted at the man: ‘Carl! You can’t do this to me!’ The young man laughed loudly and sat down. Mr Harris was a small, quiet man. He wore quiet clothes, and he had a quiet voice. He did not like noisy people and loud voices. So he was not pleased. ‘Young people are always noisy,’ he thought. ‘Why can’t they talk quietly?’

 He put his book down and closed his eyes. But he could not sleep because the two young people didn’t stop talking. The young woman sat down and said in a quieter voice: ‘Carl, you’re my brother and I love you, but please listen to me. You can’t take my diamond necklace. Give it back to me now. Please!’

 Carl smiled. ‘No, Elena,’ he said. ‘I’m going back to Russia soon, and I’m taking your diamonds with me.’ He took off his hat and put it on the seat. ‘Elena, listen. You have a rich husband, but I , I have no money. I have nothing! How can I live without money? You can’t give me money, so I need your diamonds, little sister.’

 Mr Harris looked at the young woman. She was small, with black hair and dark eyes. Her face was white and afraid. Mr Harris began to feel sorry for Elena. She and her brother didn’t look at him once. ‘Can’t they see me?’ he thought.

 ‘Carl,’ Elena said. Her voice was very quiet now, and Mr Harris listened carefully. ‘You came to dinner at our house tonight, and you went to my room and took my diamond necklace. How could you do that to me? My husband gave the diamonds to me. They were his mother’s diamonds before that. He’s going to be very, very angry , and I’m afraid of him.’

 Her brother laughed. He put his hand in his pocket, then took it out again and opened it slowly. The diamond necklace in his hand was very beautiful. Mr Harris stared at it. For a minute or two nobody moved and it was quiet in the carriage. There was only the noise of the train, and it went quickly on through the dark cold night.

 Mr Harris opened his book again, but he didn’t read it. He watched Carl’s face, with its hungry eyes and its cold smile.

 ‘What beautiful, beautiful diamonds!’ Carl said. ‘I can get a lot of money for these.’
 ‘Give them back to me, Carl,’ Elena whispered, ‘My husband’s going to kill me. You’re my brother… Please help me. Please!’
 Carl laughed again, and Mr Harris wanted to hit him. ‘Go home, little sister,’ Carl said. ‘I’m not going to give the diamonds back to you. Go home to your angry husband.’

 Suddenly there was a knife in the young woman’s hand. A long, bright knife. Mr Harris watched with his mouth open. He couldn’t speak or move.
 ‘Give the diamonds back to me!’ Elena cried. ‘Or I’m going to kill you!’ Her hand on the knife was white.
 Carl laughed and laughed. ‘What a sister!’ he said. ‘What a kind, sweet sister! No, they’re my diamonds now. Put your knife away, little sister.’
 But the knife in the white hand moved quickly: up, then down. There was a long, terrible cry, and Carl’s body fell slowly on to the seat. The colour of the seat began to change to red, and the diamond necklace fell from Carl’s hand on to the floor.

 Elena’s face was white. ‘Oh no!’ she whispered. ‘Carl! Come back… come back! I didn’t want to kill you!’ But Carl didn’t answer, and the red blood ran slowly over the floor. Elena put her head in her hands, and again in the carriage there was a long, terrible cry.

 Mr Harris’s face was white too. He opened his mouth, but he couldn’t speak. He stood up, and carefully moved to the door. The young woman was quiet now. She didn’t move or look up at Mr Harris.

 In the corridor, Mr Harris ran. The guard was at the back of the train and Mr Harris got there in half a minute.
 ‘Quickly!’ Mr Harris said. ‘Come quickly! An accident… a young woman… oh dear! Her brother is… is dead!’
 The guard ran with Mr Harris back to the carriage. Mr Harris opened the door and they went inside.

 There was no dead body of a young man. There was no young woman… no blood, no knife, no diamond necklace. Only Mr Harris’s bags and his hat and coat.
 The guard looked at Mr Harris, and Mr Harris looked at him.
 ‘But…’ Mr Harris began. ‘But they were here! I saw them! She… the young woman… She had a knife and she… she killed her brother.’
 ‘A knife, you say?’ the guard asked.
 ‘Yes,’ Mr Harris said quickly. ‘A long knife, and her brother took her diamonds, so she — ‘
 ‘Ah! Diamonds!’ the guard said. ‘Was the young woman’s name Elena?’ he asked.
 ‘Yes, it was!’ Mr Harris said. ‘How do you know that? Do you… Do you know her?’
 ‘Yes — and no,’ the guard said slowly. He thought for a minute, then looked at Mr Harris. ‘Elena di Saronelli,’ he said. ‘She had dark eyes and black hair. Very beautiful. She was half-Italian, half-Finnish. Her brother was a halfbrother. They had the same father, but his mother was Russian, I think.’
 ‘Was? Had?’ Mr Harris stared at the guard. ‘But she… Elena… she’s alive! And where is she?’
 ‘Oh no,’ said the guard. ‘Elena di Saronelli died about eighty years ago. After she killed her brother with a knife, she jumped off the train, and died at once. It was near here, I think.’ He looked out of the window, into the night.

 Mr Harris’s face was very white again. ‘Eighty years ago!’ he whispered. ‘What are you saying? Were she and her brother… But I saw them!’
 ‘Yes, that’s right,’ the guard said. ‘You saw them, but they’re not alive. They’re ghosts. They often come on the night train at this time in September. I never see them, but somebody saw them last year. A man and his wife. They were very unhappy about it. But what can I do? I can’t stop Elena and Carl coming on the train.’

 The guard looked at Mr Harris’s white face. ‘You need a drink,’ he said. ‘Come and have a vodka with me.’
 Mr Harris didn’t usually drink vodka, but he felt afraid. When he closed his eyes, he could see again Elena’s long knife and could hear her terrible cry. So he went with the guard to the back of the train.

 After the vodka, Mr Harris felt better. He didn’t want to sleep, and the guard was happy to talk. So Mr Harris stayed with the guard and didn’t go back to his carriage.
 ‘Yes,’ the guard said, ‘it’s a famous story. I don’t remember it all. It happened a long time ago, of course. Elena’s father was a famous man here in Finland. He was very rich once, but he had three or four wives and about eight children. And he liked the good things of life. So there wasn’t much money for the children. Carl, the oldest son, was a bad man, people say. He wanted an easy life, and money in his hand all the time.’

 The train hurried on to Oulu through the black night, and the guard drank some more vodka. ‘Now, Elena,’ he said. ‘She didn’t have an easy life with those three difficult men — her father, her brother, her husband. One year she visited her mother’s family in Italy, and there she met her husband, di Saronelli. He was rich, but he wasn’t a kind man. They came back to Finland, and Carl often visited their house. He wanted money from his sister’s rich husband. Elena loved her brother, and gave him some money. But di Saronelli didn’t like Carl and was angry with Elena. He stopped giving her money, and after that… well, you know the story now.’
 ‘Yes,’ Mr Harris said. ‘Poor, unhappy Elena.’

 Mr Harris stayed with his friends in Oulu for two weeks. They were quiet weeks, and Mr Harris had a good holiday. But he took the bus back to Helsinki. The bus was slow, and there were a lot of people on it, but Mr Harris was very happy. He didn’t want to take the night train across Finland again.‘Go and have your holiday in St Austell. You can have a good time there. Forget about Julie. Those green eyes, now.’ He took out a second sandwich and began to eat it. ‘I knew a woman once with green eyes. She gave me a very bad time. No, you want to forget about Julie.’